Hello, and welcome back.
We are now ready for last fundamental
step in Sparse Modeling that this
dictionary learning.
Let's go into that.
Remember what we are trying to solve.
We are solving this equation, and this is
the dictionary.
This is the data, and we already talked a
lot about alpha, the Sparse
Representation of the data using the
dictionary.
So what should the dictionary be?
The assumption in image processing, the
assumption is that images are behave in a
sparse fashion.
And we have already seen examples of that
using, for example, JPEG or even these
exaggerated example of putting all the
images as part of the dictionary.
So how do we design a dictionary?
The call is if we believe in sparsity we
should decide a dictionary that
encourages sparsity, the more sparse, the
vector alpha.
The better we are going to be because we
are trying to create sparse models.
So the idea is that we are going to have
to learn, or we are going to select the
dictionary that helps us to sparsify the
signal.
And there are basically two directions in
doing that.
One is to take.
Off the shelf dictionaries.
There are very good dictionaries out
there.
We have seen JPEG is an outstanding
algorithm.
So we could use the cosine as a
dictionary.
We could use Fourier, we can use
Wavelength.
There are many, many off the shelf
dictionaries.
The issue with those dictionaries at.
They're not adapted to the signal.
So they will be, kind of, universal.
They will be very good for the signals
that we are going to work with, but maybe
they're not, kind of, the best possible.
So the other direction is basically to
learn the dictionary.
Let's start with a lot of examples of
data.
And let us learn the dictionary.
And then we can for example, use that
dictionary for other images.
And that's what we're going to discuss
now.
We're going to be in the dictionary
learning regime and not in this regime
which is the most classical signal
processing.
And we were here when we were doing.
Image compression and we describe JPEG.
But now it's our turn to describe this.
To present a dictionary that will help us
to sparsify the signal.
So we are going to design.
D.
And the basic idea is very, very simple
in concept, and also not very difficult
to implement, as we're going to see.
So now, instead of having one signal, we
have multiple signals.
Each one of them is a column here.
So each column here is for example an
image patch which is 64-dimensional,
eight by eight.
We have one dictionary that we are
going to train for all these images.
And then every one of these images,
patches, or signals have, has its own
Sparse Representation.
So for example the first one has this
one.
The second one has the next one.
So we have moved from a single column
here and a single column here to a
matrix.
What's the dimensions of these matrix.
It's N.
So that's, again, the size that we had
before.
And the number of signals, P.
What is D?
Again, we have N and K.
So, N here and K in destination.
There is nothing new here.
And here, we have K in this direction And
p in this direction, one per signal.
And the goal now is to design this
dictionary.
What do we want?
We want basically a Sparse Representation
for all the signals.
So we are basically summing over p all
the sigmas.
This is P.
Okay?
And we have one dictionary for all the
signals and we want a Sparse
Representation for each one so, see that
J runs from one to P, a unique dictionary
and all of them have to be good
representations.
And they have to be sparse at the same
time.
Before that, we didn't have this
summation and we were just talking about
one.
Now we have a summation and we want a
dictionary that is good for all of them.
Now, let me just make one comment.
I'm going to describe how to do that when
we have already picked signals and we are
going to learn the dictionary.
Now, as the number of signals increases,
we can do a similar type of training of
learning that I am going to show you next
online.
Online means.
That we are basically.
going to learn and adapt the dictionary
as the images are coming.
So we don't have to have a huge memory to
save all the images.
We're going to do that as the signals are
coming.
I'm not going to describe that during
this week.
The algorithms.
The implementations that I mentioned that
you could download from the web.
Do that in an online fashion so they can
deal with millions zillions of images
with absolutely no problem.
So, now my goal is to show you how we do
this learning.
And look at here.
We have to optimize, not only for the
sparse code as we were doing before,
we're going to optimize also for the
dictionary.
So we're going to learn the dictionary,
and the Sparse Representation of the
signals, at the same time.
And the basic idea.
There are a number of techniques.
I'm going to explain you what's called
the K-SVD Algorithm that is kind of an
extension of K means for clustering.
The basic idea is very, very simple to
illustrate.
We have all the signals.
I wrote them as x here.
And we're going to learn a dictionary.
So we initialize the dictionary, any way
you want.
One way of initializing is just picking,
randomly, some of these data points.
So you pick a few data points and you put
as columns here.
Remember that I mentioned, here is k.
We're going to learn K atoms.
So you just.
Here, there are P signals, and P is
larger than K.
Otherwise, as we talked before, just put
the signals in the dictionary.
So just randomly pick, here, K of the
signals and put them as dictionary.
That gives us a, an initialization.
Now, the next step is we're going to
basically do Sparse Coding with that
dictionary.
That we already know how to do.
So we basically go every signal and we
solve as Sparse Coding problem.
This is going to be the code for the
first signal, the code for the second
signal.
Again, red means active, is part of the
active set, and non-zero co-efficient.
So we did the sparse coding.
We went all around and we basically for
each one of these, of them did Sparse
Coding.
It's one of these blocks I'm going to
explain a bit more in the next slide.
I'm just giving you the general idea.
The next part is we're going to have to
activate the dictionary.
And the basic idea is we go in the other
direction.
For doing this Sparse Coding study, we
went into this direction we sparsely code
every signal.
In the dictionary, we're going to to
update one item at a time.
Using the codes that we have already
produced.
So we are going to update one atom at a
time.
Now after we have updated, we are going
to let the signals to be encoded again
and reiterate, so we.
Start with a dictionary, we do Sparse
Coding.
We update the dictionary, we do Sparse
Coding again, we update the dictionary
and either we converge or we do that for
a prefixed number of interrations
depending on our computational
capabilities.
Now, what I have to do is explain each
one of these blocks, and you're going to
see how simple they are.
This we already know, basically.
This is Sparse Coding.
Sparse Coding is very, very simple
because we have discussed a number of
times.
And look like I put here, P.
Because either we do zero with basically
matching pursuit or orthogonal matching
pursuit, or we do the relaxation, P equal
one.
So given the dictionary, we do the Sparse
Coding.
We are going to go in this direction for
every signal we get the Sparse Code.
Okay?
So we go in that direction.
This is just one example.
And for every signal, we have to
basically solve a Sparse Coding problem
for that signal, and absolutely nothing
else.
And that's, again, is here.
So we don't have the sum.
Because we do one at, at time.
So, we don't have to compute the whole
matrix A, this is the whole matrix A.
We don't compute it all at once, we just
go one at a time as we have been doing
before and that basically solves us, the
whole matrix A.
So, now we have this Sparse Code with
this dictionary.
Now it's time to update the dictionary,
which is the new part.
And again, we'll solve this by any
Pursuit algorithm as I mentioned before.
Either the L0 with Matching Pursuit, or
L1 with any of the convex solvers.
So now it's time to do the dictionary.
Let us pick one of the adults.
As I say we're going to update one atom
at a time.
How do we update this atom?
The concept is very simple before I run
you through.
We're going to basically pick all the
signals that have used that atom.
This signal is using it.
This signal is using it, this signal is
using, and so on.
So we basically are going to say, which
one are the signals have nonzero entry in
the alpha vector corresponding to that
atom.
And we're going to make that atom even
better for those syncs.
So, basically we go with peak one.
And we look at all the signals that are
using it.
Okay?
Just that are using that atom.
We have one here, another here, another
here, another here, and so on.
Remember, this is our data.
And this is our matrix, this Sparse Code.
So we take all of them, and we forget
about everybody else.
We say, you signals didn't use this atom,
so I'm not going to pay attention to you
at this moment.
I'm going to pay attention to you later
on.
Remember, we iterated this.
And now the goal is, as I say, we're
going to make this atom even better.
Remember please, this atom has been used
by these signals.
But that's not the only atom that those
signals use.
So for example, the first one uses this
and this.
The second one uses this and this.
So, I'm keeping all the signals that have
used that atom but they have also used
other atoms but I, I'm not going to touch
that.
The next thing I do is actually I remove
the influence of dots.
Let me just explain that once again.
For example the first signal was a
combination of this atom, and this atom.
So I go and such drug the contribution of
this atom.
The same for the second signal.
I go and subtract the contribution of
this atom.
The same for the third, the same for the
fourth.
So, for every signal, I basically go and
subtract the contribution of all the
other atoms, but the one that I'm trying
to change.
And then I ge, I have an error.
Because I'm not considering, now, this
atom.
I'm subtracting the contribution of
everybody else.
And I just keep.
That contribution of this atom, and that
basically gives us kind of an error.
Okay.
And that's the error we're going to try
to redesign the atom to minimize that
error, that error.
What's the contribution of this atom when
we use it for those signals, lets see if
we can change the atom to make that
contribution even better, meaning that
error even smaller.
And so what we have here is this the
error, this is the residual, this is what
was the contribution of this atom.
And now I want to change it, I want to
redesign it and also I want to redesign
the coefficient.
So, this I have.
This is the amount of information energy
that this atom was contributing.
And now I'm going to basically.
Try to redesign it to make it even
better.
So this is what we have to optimize for
and this is very easy.
It's what's called a singular value
decomposition.
It's a standard tool in linear algebra.
It has a clause formula.
So, once again, we pick an atom, we can
go one atom at a time or we can go
randomly, we pick an atom, we pick all
the signals that have used that atom.
We subtract the contribution of every
other atom.
And then we say, how can I improve this
atom in such a way that it's contribution
to the signal is even better?
And that's an SVD.
So, we run an SVD for every single of the
atoms.
We have updated the dictionary.
And now, as we explained in one of the
previous slides, we let, again, all these
thing has to be encoded again with a new
dictionary.
Then we update the dictionary and we run
a few iterations.
So very simple, Sparse Coding, SBD.
Sparse Coding, SBD.
That's all what we have to do.
Multiple of those.
As many Sparse Codes as signals.
As many SVDs are, as atoms in the
dictionary.
We do that, we have a new dictionary.
So, what we have so far is, we started
from the need of doing signal modeling.
That basically led us to propose Sparse
Modeling as a technique.
We had to discuss some theory.
Why is this possible?
And then we had to discuss, how do we do
the Sparse Coding, and how do we train
the dictionary?
And that was the topic of the last two
presentations.
Now is, will this work?
Let us try with real images.
And let's see if this works.
Let me just pay attention to one point
before we go into that in order to close
this video about dictionary learning.
Some people have basically.
Decided that instead of training the
dictionary, as we have just said, we're
going to make the dictionary be a subset.
Of X, of the data itself.
Now I mention to you that we initialize
the dictionary very often by randomly
sampling some of these syncs.
But you could actually say instead of
randomly sample why then I pick the best
one, the one's that.
Everybody else is a Sparse Representation
of, of those ones.
Those selective ones that I have picked.
And there are also optimization
techniques to do that.
So that's an alternative.
It's still dictionary learning.
But we'll restrict the dictionary to be
one.
Of the signals.
Basically, we'll restrict every atom of
the dictionary to be one of the signals.
That's an alternative.
It's just a different way of basically
learning a dictionary in order to get the
sparsest possible representation of our
signals.
So now it's time to show you some
examples.
And we're going to do that in the next
video.
Thank you very much.